Name: Jessica Morton
Evergreen Login: morjes14
Computer Science Foundations
Programming as a Way of Life
Fall 2013
Homework 3 

For each problem that requires a written answer, write (or copy-and-paste)
your answers in this file.  When you are done, you should have replaced all
the ellipses (the three dots) with your answers.

At the end, you will turn in this file along with your modified
dna_analysis.py program.


Problem 1:

(No answers in this file.)

Problem 2:

GC-content: 0.43029262963

Problem 3:

Exception error. There was a NameError which means that a function or 
operation was applied to an object of inappropriate type. In the rest of the 
error message, Python uses a stack traceback to print the name of the function,
and the name of the function that called it, and the name of the function that 
called that function, all the way back to the beginning of the program. 

In this program, the exception occurred on line 40. There was no function that 
had been called yet, so the error just displayed the line that had the
exception error in it. The error occurred because 'linenum' is no longer
defined since we commented it out. The for loop on line 39 uses the the 
variable 'linenum' to increment through the file and updates 'linenum' to what
the current line number is, or in other words, the number of lines read so far.

Since we commented out 'linenum', the for loop on line 39 can no longer use 
that variable to increment through the lines in the file. Therefore, Python 
gave an exception error. And, because 'linenum' was commented out, the program 
was never able to reach the 'seq' variable.

When the 'gc_count' line is commented out, Python returns another exception
error, a NameError just like when 'linenum' was commented out. The for loop in
line 59 is supposed to use the variable 'gc_count' to hold the number of G and
C nucleotides seen so far in 'seq'. When 'gc_count' is commented out, we can no
longer use that variable to increment the count through 'seq' in the file.

Problem 4:

GC-content: 0.43029262963
AT-content: 0.568993851852

Collaboration:

No one.

Reflection:

It took me about 3.5 hours to complete this homework. This was the easiest 
programming homework that I've done so far out of the all the homework that 
we've had. The most that I learned form this programming homework was how to 
use the command prompt to run the program using different files within a
directory on my computer. I also learned how to add more variables and
computations to an existing program while keeping the original program looking
clean and not changing the original program too much. I also learned more about
for loops and if/else statements.

There isn't anything that I wish I had known before I started or that I would
do differently, but I will probably find something after I turn my homework 
in and start talking with other students about how they did their homework.

What helped me the most with this program was being able to compare my output
to the expected output files. Being able to see what the expected output is 
supposed to be helped me figure out what I needed to do for each problem and 
how to find the answer. So I would advise other students to compare their
output with the expected output and to look at the expected output before 
starting their program. I would also advice students to know how to use the
command prompt fairly well.

